this is a great great question sorry i
mispronouncing your name james mcpine
says
quote if people have spent 10 years
drinking
or 10 years being addicted to social
media or 10 years being addicted to
video games
how is it possible for them to change
get rid of those desires and live an
intellectual life
you know james i'm just going to keep it
100 with you i feel like
the exact opposite is the question
you've got to ask
you know
if you've been doing this for 10 years
if you spent the last 10 years playing
this video games
how can you not change
you know how can you not grow how can
you not have a desire for something
better
right and if you don't what does that
say about you so if you're a supporter
of mine on patreon you've seen the
message i got i removed the person's
name but a guy wrote into me saying that
he's now 37 years old
and after watching just one of my videos
for the first time in his life he's
thinking about quitting video games so
he's obviously played video games since
his childhood he never saw it that way
before he never thought of it as
something he would ever quit and this is
a big change in his life and one of my
patreon supporters commented wow well
you know
it sure is one thing to quit playing
video games at 37
but
imagine if he had waited till 47 or 57
you know like you know every every year
counts every day counts every every
decade counts it may seem hard to change
but it's really hard to to stay the same
you know and i think we see the pathos
of that here on youtube
all the time and and look uh sorry
we can use video games as the example we
can use all kinds of other things the
example babe can you pass me the book
that has uh
uh you know clouds thanks
yeah um
so you know every so often i do play
video games and it's for five minutes
here or there and you're gonna hear from
this from this description
um
you know
and sometimes it's the most pathetic
thing
sometimes i have this yearning
for the video game to be for me and to
mean for me what it meant when i was a
child
you know
and it can't be that anymore you know it
can't be
fascinating that way or thrilling that
way or wonder us in that way where you
just can't believe what you're looking
it can never do that for me again i can
never have that experience again um
today i don't even know if it was for
five minutes i played r-type with
melissa so our type is the original
r-type very simple video game it's one
step up from space invaders and i was
just playing it and i was while i was
playing i was talking to melissa about
the history of the game a little bit and
and i said to her you know you can't
imagine when this came out and when this
is with this version of the game came
out i see you know people were excited
people were so thrilled there were grown
adults who were saying you you've got to
get this and people bought a new video
game system just for this one game i'm
no point telling the whole story so you
can't imagine you know and there were
children who got a part-time job just to
buy this game it was so
exciting
but there's there's nothing there
there's nothing to be excited about i
mean like you know we can look at it now
with
with detachment and you can just see how
ridiculous it is for a child or an adult
to be thrilled or or fascinated and we
spent five minutes on this game and then
went back to our lives and you can see
what i'm what i'm reflecting on okay so
i know it may seem hard
to switch to doing something that's
really meaningful that has real outcomes
okay but it's also hard to stay the same
it's also a huge amount of effort to
convince yourself that you still enjoy
getting drunk at the same bar that you
still enjoy playing the same video games
or just playing you know video games
year after year it's it's hard to
as a human being it's hard to stay still
that's just as much work or more than
really moving and progressing you know
so obviously i'm not i'm not saying this
to contradict you like i'm not saying
this to disagree with you in a sense
this is a kind of deeper agreement that
says it's a lot of work either way okay
so guys this is this is aristophanes uh
the clouds
um i'm thinking i'm thinking about
starting a tick tock just doing book
reviews to do short statements with us
okay so i just told you
i can go back and play a video game that
i remember from my childhood and you get
this terrible sense of vacuousness and
hollowness and meaninglessness i mean
another example this would be um
machiavelli i don't know where
machiavelli is it doesn't matter they've
seen machiavelli before it doesn't
matter they've seen the book before but
you know
okay
so uh almost a year ago now you know i
went back and was reading machiavelli
again when i first read machiavelli i
was basically a child no point telling
the whole story when i first read
aristophanes clouds
i'm
i was a young teenager i mean i could
get into the first encounters i had with
greek because i was involved in the
theater when i was you know quite young
so anyway the very first time then i
read it a second time years later and
stuff you know what i can go back and
read this book today
and it's more meaningful and it's more
rewarding and it's not just nostalgia so
we read this today and it mentions the
political figure cleon and for me and my
girlfriend both it's like oh you know
who cleon is because you've read
thucydides you've read these other books
about politics and you know there are
things in here that are now more
meaningful and more important there's
you know more you get out of it i mean
obviously mackie you really need to be
middle-aged to read machiavelli
reading machiavelli as a teenager is
very very difficult you wouldn't get out
of it so you know um
you know so james you're right but i'm
right also you know you're right after
10 years of just playing video games or
just getting drunk with a bunch of
losers we walked no offense but we
walked past some guys doing that today i
joke with most of us oh gee sure wish i
was like these guys there were three
guys standing around smoking cigarettes
and during alcohol that we that we
walked past you know okay you do that
for 10 years and then it's hard to
change i am saying it's also hard to
stay the same
[Music]
you